= validates_email_format_of Gem and Rails Plugin

Validate e-mail addresses against RFC 2822 and RFC 3696.

== Installation

Installing as a gem:

  gem install validates_email_format_of

Or in your Gemfile:

  gem 'validates_email_format_of'

== Usage

  # Rails
  # I18n locales are loaded automatically.
  class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
    validates_email_format_of :email, :message => 'is not looking good'
    # OR
    validates :email, :email_format => { :message => 'is not looking good' }
  end

  # Now you can test your model using RSpec:
  require "validates_email_format_of/rspec_matcher"
  describe Person do
    it { should validate_email_format_of(:email).with_message('is not looking good') }
  end

  # If you're not using Rails (which really means, if you're not using ActiveModel::Validations)
  ValidatesEmailFormatOf::load_i18n_locales # Optional, if you want error messages to be in your language
  I18n.locale = :pl # If, for example, you want Polish error messages.
  ValidatesEmailFormatOf::validate_email_format("example@mydomain.com") # => nil
  ValidatesEmailFormatOf::validate_email_format("invalid_because_there_is_no_at_symbol") # => ["does not appear to be a valid e-mail address"]

=== Options

  :message
     String. A custom error message when the email format is invalid (default is: "does not appear to be a valid e-mail address")
  :check_mx
     Boolean. Check domain for a valid MX record (default is false)
  :mx_message
     String. A custom error message when the domain does not match a valid MX record (default is: "is not routable").  Ignored unless :check_mx option is true.
  :local_length
    Maximum number of characters allowed in the local part (everything before the '@') (default is 64)
  :domain_length
    Maximum number of characters allowed in the domain part (everything after the '@') (default is 255)
  :generate_message
    Boolean. Return the I18n key of the error message instead of the error message itself (default is false)
  :with
    Specify a custom Regex as the valid email format.
  :on, :if, :unless, :allow_nil, :allow_blank, :strict
     Standard ActiveModel validation options.  These work in the ActiveModel/ActiveRecord/Rails syntax only.
     See http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveModel/Validations/ClassMethods.html#method-i-validates for details.

== Testing

To execute the unit tests run <tt>rspec</tt>.

Tested in Ruby 1.8.7, 1.9.2, 1.9.3, 2.0.0, 2.1.2, JRuby and REE 1.8.7.

== Contributing

If you think we're letting some rules about valid email formats slip through the cracks, don't just update the Regex.
Instead, add a failing test, and demonstrate that the described email address should be treated differently.  A link to an appropriate RFC is the best way to do this.
Then change the gem code to make the test pass.

  describe "i_think_this_is_not_a_v@lid_email_addre.ss" do
    # According to http://..., this email address IS NOT valid.
    it { should have_errors_on_email.because("does not appear to be valid") }
  end
  describe "i_think_this_is_a_v@lid_email_addre.ss" do
    # According to http://..., this email address IS valid.
    it { should_not have_errors_on_email }
  end

Yes, our Rspec syntax is that simple!

== Homepage

* https://github.com/validates-email-format-of/validates_email_format_of

== Credits

Written by Alex Dunae (dunae.ca), 2006-11.

Many thanks to the plugin's recent contributors: https://github.com/alexdunae/validates_email_format_of/contributors

Thanks to Francis Hwang (http://fhwang.net/) at Diversion Media for creating the 1.1 update.

Thanks to Travis Sinnott for creating the 1.3 update.

Thanks to Denis Ahearn at Riverock Technologies (http://www.riverocktech.com/) for creating the 1.4 update.

Thanks to George Anderson (http://github.com/george) and 'history' (http://github.com/history) for creating the 1.4.1 update.

Thanks to Isaac Betesh (https://github.com/betesh) for converting tests to Rspec and refactoring for version 1.6.0.
